# Arxiv Papers in cs.CV on 2024-11-16
### EVT: Efficient View Transformation for Multi-Modal 3D Object Detection
- **Arxiv ID**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10715v2
- **DOI**: None
- **Categories**: **cs.CV**
- **Links**: [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2411.10715v2)
- **Published**: 2024-11-16 06:11:10+00:00
- **Updated**: 2024-11-19 09:07:18+00:00
- **Authors**: Yongjin Lee, Hyeon-Mun Jeong, Yurim Jeon, Sanghyun Kim
- **Comment**: None
- **Journal**: None
- **Summary**: Multi-modal sensor fusion in bird's-eye-view (BEV) representation has become the leading approach in 3D object detection. However, existing methods often rely on depth estimators or transformer encoders for view transformation, incurring substantial computational overhead. Furthermore, the lack of precise geometric correspondence between 2D and 3D spaces leads to spatial and ray-directional misalignments, restricting the effectiveness of BEV representations. To address these challenges, we propose a novel 3D object detector via efficient view transformation (EVT), which leverages a well-structured BEV representation to enhance accuracy and efficiency. EVT focuses on two main areas. First, it employs Adaptive Sampling and Adaptive Projection (ASAP), using LiDAR guidance to generate 3D sampling points and adaptive kernels. The generated points and kernels are then used to facilitate the transformation of image features into BEV space and refine the BEV features. Second, EVT includes an improved transformer-based detection framework, which contains a group-wise query initialization method and an enhanced query update framework. It is designed to effectively utilize the obtained multi-modal BEV features within the transformer decoder. By leveraging the geometric properties of object queries, this framework significantly enhances detection performance, especially in a multi-layer transformer decoder structure. EVT achieves state-of-the-art performance on the nuScenes test set with real-time inference speed.



### C-DiffSET: Leveraging Latent Diffusion for SAR-to-EO Image Translation with Confidence-Guided Reliable Object Generation
- **Arxiv ID**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2411.10788v2
- **DOI**: None
- **Categories**: **cs.CV**, eess.IV
- **Links**: [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2411.10788v2)
- **Published**: 2024-11-16 12:28:40+00:00
- **Updated**: 2024-11-23 08:25:59+00:00
- **Authors**: Jeonghyeok Do, Jaehyup Lee, Munchurl Kim
- **Comment**: Please visit our project page
  https://kaist-viclab.github.io/C-DiffSET_site/
- **Journal**: None
- **Summary**: Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) imagery provides robust environmental and temporal coverage (e.g., during clouds, seasons, day-night cycles), yet its noise and unique structural patterns pose interpretation challenges, especially for non-experts. SAR-to-EO (Electro-Optical) image translation (SET) has emerged to make SAR images more perceptually interpretable. However, traditional approaches trained from scratch on limited SAR-EO datasets are prone to overfitting. To address these challenges, we introduce Confidence Diffusion for SAR-to-EO Translation, called C-DiffSET, a framework leveraging pretrained Latent Diffusion Model (LDM) extensively trained on natural images, thus enabling effective adaptation to the EO domain. Remarkably, we find that the pretrained VAE encoder aligns SAR and EO images in the same latent space, even with varying noise levels in SAR inputs. To further improve pixel-wise fidelity for SET, we propose a confidence-guided diffusion (C-Diff) loss that mitigates artifacts from temporal discrepancies, such as appearing or disappearing objects, thereby enhancing structural accuracy. C-DiffSET achieves state-of-the-art (SOTA) results on multiple datasets, significantly outperforming the very recent image-to-image translation methods and SET methods with large margins.



