# Arxiv Papers in cs.CV on 2024-07-28
### Progressive Domain Adaptation for Thermal Infrared Object Tracking
- **Arxiv ID**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2407.19430v2
- **DOI**: None
- **Categories**: **cs.CV**
- **Links**: [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.19430v2)
- **Published**: 2024-07-28 08:43:16+00:00
- **Updated**: 2024-09-03 09:42:24+00:00
- **Authors**: Qiao Li, Kanlun Tan, Qiao Liu, Di Yuan, Xin Li, Yunpeng Liu
- **Comment**: 10 pages, 8 figures
- **Journal**: None
- **Summary**: Due to the lack of large-scale labeled Thermal InfraRed (TIR) training datasets, most existing TIR trackers are trained directly on RGB datasets. However, tracking methods trained on RGB datasets suffer a significant drop-off in TIR data due to the domain shift issue. To this end, in this work, we propose a Progressive Domain Adaptation framework for TIR Tracking (PDAT), which transfers useful knowledge learned from RGB tracking to TIR tracking. The framework makes full use of large-scale labeled RGB datasets without requiring time-consuming and labor-intensive labeling of large-scale TIR data. Specifically, we first propose an adversarial-based global domain adaptation module to reduce domain gap on the feature level coarsely. Second, we design a clustering-based subdomain adaptation method to further align the feature distributions of the RGB and TIR datasets finely. These two domain adaptation modules gradually eliminate the discrepancy between the two domains, and thus learn domain-invariant fine-grained features through progressive training. Additionally, we collect a largescale TIR dataset with over 1.48 million unlabeled TIR images for training the proposed domain adaptation framework. Experimental results on five TIR tracking benchmarks show that the proposed method gains a nearly 6% success rate, demonstrating its effectiveness.



