# Arxiv Papers in cs.CV on 2024-04-13
### BG-YOLO: A Bidirectional-Guided Method for Underwater Object Detection
- **Arxiv ID**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.08979v1
- **DOI**: None
- **Categories**: **cs.CV**, cs.LG, 68T07, 68T45, I.4.3; I.4.8; I.4.9; I.4.10; I.2.10
- **Links**: [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.08979v1)
- **Published**: 2024-04-13 12:06:29+00:00
- **Updated**: 2024-04-13 12:06:29+00:00
- **Authors**: Jian Zhang, Ruiteng Zhang, Xinyue Yan, Xiting Zhuang, Ruicheng Cao
- **Comment**: 15 pages, 8 figures, 4 tables
- **Journal**: None
- **Summary**: Degraded underwater images decrease the accuracy of underwater object detection. However, existing methods for underwater image enhancement mainly focus on improving the indicators in visual aspects, which may not benefit the tasks of underwater image detection, and may lead to serious degradation in performance. To alleviate this problem, we proposed a bidirectional-guided method for underwater object detection, referred to as BG-YOLO. In the proposed method, network is organized by constructing an enhancement branch and a detection branch in a parallel way. The enhancement branch consists of a cascade of an image enhancement subnet and an object detection subnet. And the detection branch only consists of a detection subnet. A feature guided module connects the shallow convolution layer of the two branches. When training the enhancement branch, the object detection subnet in the enhancement branch guides the image enhancement subnet to be optimized towards the direction that is most conducive to the detection task. The shallow feature map of the trained enhancement branch will be output to the feature guided module, constraining the optimization of detection branch through consistency loss and prompting detection branch to learn more detailed information of the objects. And hence the detection performance will be refined. During the detection tasks, only detection branch will be reserved so that no additional cost of computation will be introduced. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed method shows significant improvement in performance of the detector in severely degraded underwater scenes while maintaining a remarkable detection speed.



### A Fourier-enhanced multi-modal 3D small object optical mark recognition and positioning method for percutaneous abdominal puncture surgical navigation
- **Arxiv ID**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2404.08990v1
- **DOI**: None
- **Categories**: **cs.CV**, cs.AI, cs.RO
- **Links**: [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2404.08990v1)
- **Published**: 2024-04-13 12:28:40+00:00
- **Updated**: 2024-04-13 12:28:40+00:00
- **Authors**: Zezhao Guo, Yanzhong Guo, Zhanfang Zhao
- **Comment**: 19 pages, 6 figures,
- **Journal**: None
- **Summary**: Navigation for thoracoabdominal puncture surgery is used to locate the needle entry point on the patient's body surface. The traditional reflective ball navigation method is difficult to position the needle entry point on the soft, irregular, smooth chest and abdomen. Due to the lack of clear characteristic points on the body surface using structured light technology, it is difficult to identify and locate arbitrary needle insertion points. Based on the high stability and high accuracy requirements of surgical navigation, this paper proposed a novel method, a muti-modal 3D small object medical marker detection method, which identifies the center of a small single ring as the needle insertion point. Moreover, this novel method leverages Fourier transform enhancement technology to augment the dataset, enrich image details, and enhance the network's capability. The method extracts the Region of Interest (ROI) of the feature image from both enhanced and original images, followed by generating a mask map. Subsequently, the point cloud of the ROI from the depth map is obtained through the registration of ROI point cloud contour fitting. In addition, this method employs Tukey loss for optimal precision. The experimental results show this novel method proposed in this paper not only achieves high-precision and high-stability positioning, but also enables the positioning of any needle insertion point.



