# Arxiv Papers in cs.CV on 2024-02-17
### Beyond Literal Descriptions: Understanding and Locating Open-World Objects Aligned with Human Intentions
- **Arxiv ID**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11265v2
- **DOI**: None
- **Categories**: **cs.CV**
- **Links**: [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.11265v2)
- **Published**: 2024-02-17 12:42:14+00:00
- **Updated**: 2024-05-24 14:57:38+00:00
- **Authors**: Wenxuan Wang, Yisi Zhang, Xingjian He, Yichen Yan, Zijia Zhao, Xinlong Wang, Jing Liu
- **Comment**: This work has been accepted by ACL 2024 (Findings)
- **Journal**: None
- **Summary**: Visual grounding (VG) aims at locating the foreground entities that match the given natural language expressions. Previous datasets and methods for classic VG task mainly rely on the prior assumption that the given expression must literally refer to the target object, which greatly impedes the practical deployment of agents in real-world scenarios. Since users usually prefer to provide intention-based expression for the desired object instead of covering all the details, it is necessary for the agents to interpret the intention-driven instructions. Thus, in this work, we take a step further to the intention-driven visual-language (V-L) understanding. To promote classic VG towards human intention interpretation, we propose a new intention-driven visual grounding (IVG) task and build a large-scale IVG dataset termed IntentionVG with free-form intention expressions. Considering that practical agents need to move and find specific targets among various scenarios to realize the grounding task, our IVG task and IntentionVG dataset have taken the crucial properties of both multi-scenario perception and egocentric view into consideration. Besides, various types of models are set up as the baselines to realize our IVG task. Extensive experiments on our IntentionVG dataset and baselines demonstrate the necessity and efficacy of our method for the V-L field. To foster future research in this direction, our newly built dataset and baselines will be publicly available at https://github.com/Rubics-Xuan/IVG.



### GraphKD: Exploring Knowledge Distillation Towards Document Object Detection with Structured Graph Creation
- **Arxiv ID**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2402.11401v2
- **DOI**: None
- **Categories**: **cs.CV**, cs.LG
- **Links**: [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.11401v2)
- **Published**: 2024-02-17 23:08:32+00:00
- **Updated**: 2024-02-20 18:25:23+00:00
- **Authors**: Ayan Banerjee, Sanket Biswas, Josep Lladós, Umapada Pal
- **Comment**: None
- **Journal**: None
- **Summary**: Object detection in documents is a key step to automate the structural elements identification process in a digital or scanned document through understanding the hierarchical structure and relationships between different elements. Large and complex models, while achieving high accuracy, can be computationally expensive and memory-intensive, making them impractical for deployment on resource constrained devices. Knowledge distillation allows us to create small and more efficient models that retain much of the performance of their larger counterparts. Here we present a graph-based knowledge distillation framework to correctly identify and localize the document objects in a document image. Here, we design a structured graph with nodes containing proposal-level features and edges representing the relationship between the different proposal regions. Also, to reduce text bias an adaptive node sampling strategy is designed to prune the weight distribution and put more weightage on non-text nodes. We encode the complete graph as a knowledge representation and transfer it from the teacher to the student through the proposed distillation loss by effectively capturing both local and global information concurrently. Extensive experimentation on competitive benchmarks demonstrates that the proposed framework outperforms the current state-of-the-art approaches. The code will be available at: https://github.com/ayanban011/GraphKD.



