# Arxiv Papers in cs.CV on 2024-01-01
### 1st Place Solution for 5th LSVOS Challenge: Referring Video Object Segmentation
- **Arxiv ID**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00663v1
- **DOI**: None
- **Categories**: **cs.CV**, cs.AI
- **Links**: [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.00663v1)
- **Published**: 2024-01-01 04:24:48+00:00
- **Updated**: 2024-01-01 04:24:48+00:00
- **Authors**: Zhuoyan Luo, Yicheng Xiao, Yong Liu, Yitong Wang, Yansong Tang, Xiu Li, Yujiu Yang
- **Comment**: None
- **Journal**: None
- **Summary**: The recent transformer-based models have dominated the Referring Video Object Segmentation (RVOS) task due to the superior performance. Most prior works adopt unified DETR framework to generate segmentation masks in query-to-instance manner. In this work, we integrate strengths of that leading RVOS models to build up an effective paradigm. We first obtain binary mask sequences from the RVOS models. To improve the consistency and quality of masks, we propose Two-Stage Multi-Model Fusion strategy. Each stage rationally ensembles RVOS models based on framework design as well as training strategy, and leverages different video object segmentation (VOS) models to enhance mask coherence by object propagation mechanism. Our method achieves 75.7% J&F on Ref-Youtube-VOS validation set and 70% J&F on test set, which ranks 1st place on 5th Large-scale Video Object Segmentation Challenge (ICCV 2023) track 3. Code is available at https://github.com/RobertLuo1/iccv2023_RVOS_Challenge.



### Credible Teacher for Semi-Supervised Object Detection in Open Scene
- **Arxiv ID**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00695v2
- **DOI**: None
- **Categories**: **cs.CV**
- **Links**: [PDF](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2401.00695v2)
- **Published**: 2024-01-01 08:19:21+00:00
- **Updated**: 2024-01-03 02:33:49+00:00
- **Authors**: Jingyu Zhuang, Kuo Wang, Liang Lin, Guanbin Li
- **Comment**: Accpet by ICASSP 2024
- **Journal**: None
- **Summary**: Semi-Supervised Object Detection (SSOD) has achieved resounding success by leveraging unlabeled data to improve detection performance. However, in Open Scene Semi-Supervised Object Detection (O-SSOD), unlabeled data may contains unknown objects not observed in the labeled data, which will increase uncertainty in the model's predictions for known objects. It is detrimental to the current methods that mainly rely on self-training, as more uncertainty leads to the lower localization and classification precision of pseudo labels. To this end, we propose Credible Teacher, an end-to-end framework. Credible Teacher adopts an interactive teaching mechanism using flexible labels to prevent uncertain pseudo labels from misleading the model and gradually reduces its uncertainty through the guidance of other credible pseudo labels. Empirical results have demonstrated our method effectively restrains the adverse effect caused by O-SSOD and significantly outperforms existing counterparts.



